README.md, before:

# Cataloger

Cataloger is a high-performance, JPEG-driven, metadata-aware image browser engineered for instant culling. It displays embedded camera previews rather than rendering RAW pixels, prioritizing speed while maintaining full color accuracy through LittleCMS and Metal/Vulkan pipelines. Key capabilities include:

- Instant embedded preview loading with multithreaded extraction and aggressive caching.
- Metadata-centric workflows (IPTC/XMP, RAW+JPEG pairing, live rating/tagging, auto-advance).
- Dual-mode UI (contact sheet + viewer) sharing a common preview cache for seamless navigation.
- Robust ingest engine with templated destinations, renaming, metadata application, and optional auto-ingest.
- Delivery pathways via FTP/SFTP uploader with saved connections and metadata templates.

Project documentation lives under `/doc`, covering product overview, system architecture, pipelines, and build/testing/deployment policies. Agent-facing rules remain in `Agents.md` (excluded from version control).

## Building & Testing
Follow the strict build/test rules defined in `/doc/BuildTestingDeployment.md`:
1. Configure the project using the provided CMake presets (`cmake --preset macos-debug`, `cmake --preset macos-release`, and analogous `linux-*`/`windows-*` presets).
2. Build with `ninja` (or `cmake --build --preset …`).
3. Run the automated suites with `ctest --preset all` (macOS Debug binaries) plus the performance harness.
4. Ensure clang-format/clang-tidy/cppcheck are clean before submitting changes.

### Quick Start
```bash
cmake --preset macos-debug
cmake --build --preset macos-debug
ctest --preset all
```
Use the `*-release` presets for optimized builds and the `linux-*` / `windows-*` presets on their respective hosts. All presets live in `CMakePresets.json` and reference toolchains under `cmake/toolchains/`.

## Repository Structure
- `src/app/` – Application shell and entry point (currently a stub wired to the placeholder services).
- `src/services/` – Module-per-library scaffolding for Catalog, Preview, Ingest, Metadata, Delivery, and Tasks services.
- `src/platform/` – Host detection and OS abstraction stubs.
- `src/config/` – Settings/bootstrap configuration placeholders.
- `.github/workflows/super-linter.yml` – GitHub Actions workflow running [Super Linter](https://github.com/super-linter/super-linter) on pushes/PRs for repo-wide lint coverage.
- `src/tests/unit/` – GoogleTest suites (e.g., catalog and preview services).
- `src/tests/perf/` – Lightweight performance harnesses (preview pipeline latency, etc.) invoked via `ctest`.
- `third_party/adobe_xmp/` – Adobe XMP Toolkit SDK (vendored from github.com/adobe/XMP-Toolkit-SDK) used for IPTC/XMP serialization.
- `doc/` – Product and architecture documentation.
- `Agents.md` – Internal agent rules (ignored from Git).

Refer to `Agents.md` for the exhaustive implementation roadmap, coding standards, security constraints, and workflows.

Commit message:

feat: phase3 planning and preview upgrades

README.md, after:

# Cataloger

Cataloger is a high-performance, JPEG-driven, metadata-aware image browser engineered for instant culling. It displays embedded camera previews rather than rendering RAW pixels, prioritizing speed while maintaining full color accuracy through LittleCMS and Metal/Vulkan pipelines. Key capabilities include:

- Instant embedded preview loading with multithreaded extraction and aggressive caching.
- Metadata-centric workflows (IPTC/XMP, RAW+JPEG pairing, live rating/tagging, auto-advance).
- Dual-mode UI (contact sheet + viewer) sharing a common preview cache for seamless navigation.
- Robust ingest engine with templated destinations, renaming, metadata application, and optional auto-ingest.
- Delivery pathways via FTP/SFTP uploader with saved connections and metadata templates.

Project documentation lives under `/doc`, covering product overview, system architecture, pipelines, and build/testing/deployment policies. Agent-facing rules remain in `Agents.md` (excluded from version control).

## Building & Testing
Follow the strict build/test rules defined in `/doc/BuildTestingDeployment.md`:
1. Install the required SDKs: Qt6 Widgets, SQLite3 dev headers, ICU, LittleCMS (lcms2), libjpeg/libtiff/libheif/libde265, and (for future Windows/Linux work) the Vulkan SDK. Metal is the only GPU backend implemented today.
2. Configure the project using the provided CMake presets (`cmake --preset macos-debug`, `cmake --preset macos-release`, and analogous `linux-*`/`windows-*` presets).
3. Build with `ninja` (or `cmake --build --preset …`).
4. Run the automated suites with `ctest --preset all` (macOS Debug binaries) plus the performance harness.
5. Ensure clang-format/clang-tidy/cppcheck are clean before submitting changes.

### Quick Start
```bash
cmake --preset macos-debug
cmake --build --preset macos-debug
ctest --preset all
```
Use the `*-release` presets for optimized builds and the `linux-*` / `windows-*` presets on their respective hosts. All presets live in `CMakePresets.json` and reference toolchains under `cmake/toolchains/`.

## Repository Structure
- `src/app/` – Application shell and entry point (currently a stub wired to the placeholder services).
- `src/services/` – Module-per-library scaffolding for Catalog, Preview, Ingest, Metadata, Delivery, and Tasks services.
- `src/platform/gpu/` – GPU bridge implementations (Metal on macOS today, Vulkan stubs reserved for future ports) powering the preview renderer.
- `src/platform/` – Host detection and OS abstraction stubs.
- `src/config/` – Settings/bootstrap configuration placeholders.
- `.github/workflows/super-linter.yml` – GitHub Actions workflow running [Super Linter](https://github.com/super-linter/super-linter) on pushes/PRs for repo-wide lint coverage.
- `src/tests/unit/` – GoogleTest suites (e.g., catalog and preview services).
- `src/tests/perf/` – Lightweight performance harnesses (preview pipeline latency/GPU timings) invoked via `ctest`.
- `third_party/adobe_xmp/` – Adobe XMP Toolkit SDK (vendored from github.com/adobe/XMP-Toolkit-SDK) used for IPTC/XMP serialization.
- `doc/Phase3DevelopmentPlan.md` – Breakdown of the remaining Phase 3 tasks (Metal renderer, embedded ICC parsing, UI/perf wiring).
- `doc/` – Product and architecture documentation.
- `Agents.md` – Internal agent rules (ignored from Git).

### Preview Pipeline Notes
- The preview extractor looks for optional ICC sidecars next to each image (e.g., `IMG_0001.CR3` + `IMG_0001.icc`). If none are present, it falls back to sRGB before running LittleCMS conversions.
- Cache hit/miss/error events are surfaced through the PreviewService event sink; the app bootstrap prints aggregate counters for quick diagnostics.
- Metal is the active GPU backend on macOS; Vulkan stubs exist on Windows/Linux until the renderer is implemented there.

Refer to `Agents.md` for the exhaustive implementation roadmap, coding standards, security constraints, and workflows.
